This is my LLM managed Obsidian Vault.
Every single note here and this Vault is
autonomously managed by an AI agent. I
use this to summarize books, super long
podcasts, meetings I've been in, and the
beauty of doing it in Obsidian is it
adds hyperlinks for all the different
concepts, people, and things mentioned,
and it connects everything into one
singular knowledge base. For context,
the AI that's powering this is Claude
Code, and I made a video going deeper
into Claude Code that you can check out
if you're interested, but a lot of you
guys suggested that I make a video going
in-depth and showing my Claude
Code-powered Obsidian Vault, so that's
what this video is. I also made a
step-by-step installation guide in my
channel membership if you're new to
Claude Code Obsidian and you want to
support the channel, so you can also
check that out. But, one concern you
might have with a setup like this is
privacy. So, at the end of the video,
I'll also share with you the steps I've
taken to protect my privacy and also how
you can install local private LLMs to do
a lot of the tasks here. But, first, why
do something like this? The reason why
you might want to build something like
this is because it's a true second
brain. It has memory of all the things
that you've talked about before, all the
things you've worked on, every single
meeting you've been in, or books that
you've read, and you can easily ask it
questions in natural language in a chat
window. And the best part about it is
that it just works autonomously once you
set it up. This is only going to become
more valuable over time, and it also
gives us ownership over our own data and
things that we research on. We can plug
this into any AI agent, any open-source
agent, right now or in the future. But,
yeah, let's get into the setup. So, the
general organization of my Vault is I
just have 10 different folders, and I
have the AI
put different notes into different
folders.
So, we have updates, daily notes,
meetings, people, projects, research,
references, summaries, skills, and
places. So, the first folder is updates.
So, in updates, I have two main things.
So, the first is a daily brief based on
my calendar, my email, my messages, and
tasks, and it just surfaces the most
important things based on a few
heuristics that I gave it and some
examples I gave it, so that I don't have
to check my to-do app. I don't have to
check my email. I don't have to check my
messages. I can just look at this on any
device and have a good overview of what
are the things I should have focus on or
the people that I should respond to. In
the last video that I made, a lot of you
guys were concerned with having an AI
being able to see your messages and your
email.
And I'm going to talk about that later
in the video, but there are a few things
I do to really protect my privacy. First
is I only have it have access to my work
email, so not my personal email. And
second, I also use a combination of
cloud code and local models for the
different things in this vault. And this
has really saved me a lot of time
because I don't have this FOMO of
feeling I have to check my messages or
my email every few hours or anything
like that. It just surfaces the most
important things here. So, the second
one is the daily news. So, in the
previous one, I had uh a few different
These are just daily news headlines that
are the most important based on the
things that I'm interested in on
different topics. And they're also in
different languages. This also helped me
in not having to scroll different feeds
just to get news because previously, I
would get a lot of news from Twitter or
other feeds. And while it is very
efficient to get news, especially
breaking news on those platforms, there
are a lot of things that are kind of
just time wasters. So, I think this has
really helped me in staying up to the
news in a much healthier way. So, the
way that I do this is I just have an AI
on a schedule go through the daily brief
and daily news page and update it on a
schedule. And it goes through the agent
instructions every time of how it should
format everything. So, for me, I just do
it once a day, but you can really do
this as frequently as you want. I made
this one extension that is pretty useful
for this, which is the unread indicator.
So, when the agent goes and updates a
file, there is an unread indicator and I
can just click on it and see what it
changed. So, I'll also link that in the
description if you want to install that.
Okay, but yeah, let's move on to the
second folder. So, second folder is the
daily page. So, the daily page is the
AI's own personal journal. So, daily
notes are a key feature in Obsidian.
Basically, every day that you open up
Obsidian, you get a new note with
today's day on it that you can use as a
diary or a record of things that you've
done. And I just have Claude Code update
everything that's done every single day.
So, I have a record of the things that
I've worked on with Claude Code, the
things that it's summarized, things that
it's researched. And this is pretty
helpful because the AI can reference
this at any point, and it helps it find
information much better. And if you want
to do something like this, it's pretty
easy. All you have to do is tell Claude
Code to update its own instructions so
that updates the daily note every time
it finishes a different task. This also
functions as a log if I want to check
its work and make sure it didn't do
anything destructive. All right, let's
move on to the third folder, meetings.
So, this is where I have Claude Code
take meeting notes. I think meeting
notes are one of the most underrated
parts of this AI-managed second brain.
So, with meeting notes, I have a
workflow with Claude Code where if I
just pass it the recording of a meeting,
it will transcribe the entire meeting,
it will figure out who's speaking, and
then create a detailed summary with
hyperlinks for different things that we
talked about, and also update a Rolodex
of that person. There are a lot of
services that do something like this,
but this makes it so that you have one
less subscription. And you also own your
own meeting notes because if you use
some of those
AI meeting note apps, then if you stop
paying for them, then you don't have
access to your meeting notes anymore.
And this also makes it easy for you to
look stuff up. If you ever have any
questions about things I've talked about
with different people that you have
recorded in here, you can just ask your
Claude Code in plain English, and it'll
give you an answer. If you wanted to,
you could do it all completely offline.
So, you don't even have to use Claude
Code. You can use an open-source model
and have it transcribe the meeting,
summarize it, and then add it to
Obsidian. And so, this is the format
that I've come up with, which is
basically having like a too long, didn't
read at the top, and then a a summary
with the different uh things that we
talked about hyperlinked, and as well as
at the bottom like different quotes or
people mentioned. So, I'll include the
skill if you want to install it to Cloud
Code or install it to any other
AI model that you want to use. All
right, the next folder is people. So,
another thing I have in this AI second
brain is an automated Rolodex. So, every
time I have a meeting with a different
person, it will create a person note of
different things about that person that
we talked about, so it's easy for me to
reference anything that we talked about,
like all the different meetings and
different things that they've mentioned
to me before that maybe I'll forget in
the future. So, I have a people note
template that I have Cloud Code fill out
when it's making a page like this, and
it basically puts in their birthday, so
it calculates their age, it has a little
bio, and then the different places that
were mentioned in this Obsidian vault.
So, I can easily go back and look at it.
And I don't only use it for people that
I talked to from my different meetings,
I also use it for different people that
are mentioned in books that I've read or
different people I'm studying from. So,
yeah, this is an example of what it may
look like. So, for example, this is a
person note of this guy who I read his
books, and it has his current age, it
has like a bio, and also it links to the
different uh notes here. In Obsidian,
there's also the graph feature where for
every note you can see how it's
connected to any other notes in the
vault. So, that's also interesting to
look at. All right, so the next folder
is projects. So, in projects, I have
multiple subfolders for different
projects that I've worked on or am
working on. And the reason why I have in
this second brain is so that Cloud will
always have context whenever I want to
continue picking up on a project. So,
every time I'm working on this project
with Cloud Code, I have it make updates
to these pages of the brief, of like the
different things that we changed, and
the things that we need to work on in
the future. So, I can take a long break
on this project, and the next time I to
it up, it can just read this document
and the other documents in here, and I
can just continue working on it. For
example, in the last video, I shared how
I made an Anki workflow in Cloud Code
where it will automatically make Anki
cards for me, and I just have the entire
flow in here. So, if Cloud Code ever
gets confused, it can just go back to
here and reference it, so it knows
exactly what to do. So, these are very
useful SOPs. And also, because of the
daily note, it will make uh it will
reference this whenever we make updates
to different projects. The next two
folders are basically for the same
purpose. So, research, references,
summaries. So, one main thing that I use
this Obsidian vault for is to learn
things much faster. And the way that I
do that is I have Cloud Code take
extremely detailed notes for books,
podcasts, or videos. Yeah, let me show
you an example. So, this I'm a Strange
Loop. This is a very dense philosophy
book that I read many years ago, and I
probably only understood 30% of the
entire book.
And I wanted to
kind of get a refresher and to have a
deeper understanding. So, I gave it the
EPUB file, and then it summarized every
single chapter, and every single chapter
has hyperlinks towards different
concepts that were mentioned in the
book. So, it makes it much easier for me
to understand the book itself
without any sort of prerequisite
knowledge. So, anything I don't
understand, I can just click in like
this, casual
potency of collective phenomenon, and I
can understand this and go back and
understand this entire paragraph. So,
this is way better than just asking
ChatGPT or asking Claude to give you an
overview of what this book's about.
Like, you can't really get a in-depth
understanding. So, you can see there are
chapter-by-chapter navigation, and even
just going through the summary takes
maybe 30 minutes, but it's really a lot
more efficient than spending 30 hours
reading this book. And if I wanted to go
and read this entire book right now, I
would be able to understand it far
better getting this entire overview. So,
yeah, this is a Cloud Code skill that I
will link in the description. So, if you
want to install this,
you can do this for any podcast, any
book, or any video. One feedback you
guys said was that it would use up a lot
of tokens. So, I am on the higher tier
Claude plan, so I pretty much never hit
the limit, but I also made a more
minimal version of the skill that uses
less tokens. The last two folders are
skills, so skills it just has the
different Claude code skills that I've
made, and then places are just notes
that have references to different
places. That's it. Okay, so if you want
to set this up in your vault, there are
three files that you want to make sure
you have in the root of your Obsidian
vault. So, the first is Claude in all
caps. So, this teaches Claude code how
it should treat your vault. So,
the way that you want to format your
different notes, the different rules
that you have, and the different
templates that you have. So, this will
vary based on how you want to set this
up, and I'll also share my example one
in the description. The second file I
have is called agents. So, this is a
shorter version that has a quick
overview of all of the structure of this
Obsidian vault. So, sub-agents can
easily reference this without reading
the massive Claude markdown file. And
then the third one is a project file
that has a overview of all the different
projects and links to them. So, it just
makes it easier for the AI agent to
reference them without going and
searching through everything. And pretty
much just with those files you can have
a completely AI managed Obsidian vault.
There's a ton of people doing this now,
and there's a lot of useful skills that
you can go on different GitHubs and
download. For example, one is
LLM Wiki made by Andre Karpathy. He has
some pretty useful Obsidian-related
skills that you can download and use
with Claude code or any other agent.
There are two
extensions that I've made for Obsidian
if you want to do something like this
that has been pretty helpful. The first
one I mentioned earlier, which is the
unread indicator. I'll also link that.
And the second one is a Anki flashcard
maker. So,
a lot of times when I'm reading through
the summaries, I actually want to retain
the information. And so, I made this
pretty simple extension in Obsidian
where if I just make a highlight
on the different pages, that I can make
flashcards and it will just send it to
my Anki and I can review them later on
the future. So, yeah, if you're studying
something and you actually want to
remember them long-term,
you can try using that out. But, one
last thing I want to talk about in this
video is privacy hygiene. So, privacy
hygiene is extremely important,
especially as AI agents are getting
smarter and smarter and they're actually
doing stuff on our computers. And it's
not really something that you can ignore
because if you ignore it, then it's
likely that some AI agent's going to
maliciously take over your entire
computer. So, I'm going to show you what
I've done to prevent that and how you
can protect your privacy. So, the first
is local LLMs. All right, so most of
this video I'm talking about Claude
Code, which I use in the terminal like
this, but it's basically sending any
request you ask it to Anthropic servers
and it may be stored there for a while
and it may be used for training. So, you
might not want to do that for very
sensitive meetings or sensitive
messages. But, you can install
open-source models, which depending on
your computer can be just as powerful
for certain tasks. And if you want to do
that, I would recommend you check out
the app called LM Studio. It's totally
free, but you can search for open-source
models. You can download it based on
where your computer runs. And then you
can easily
have these tasks be done with these
local models. Or, you can just chat with
them in this app. Open-source models,
even a year ago, were pretty much
useless for doing anything. But, for
certain limited tasks, they are just as
good as the main models that you have to
pay for. So, yeah, I would recommend you
check out these private LLMs. So, the
second thing that I do is isolation. So,
if you're you're to connect your email
to Claude Code. I would recommend having
separate emails, like only connecting an
email that you would be okay with an AI
agent reading through. So, for me, I
don't connect my personal email that I
have connected to my banking, only my
work emails. I've also taken this
further and I have a separate laptop
that I barely have any apps on and it's
not connected to the internet most of
the time because there is a chance that
these AI agents could hack this entire
computer and go through all my files.
So,
I think that's just something to be
aware of
when you are using any sort of AI
agents. The third thing you can do if
you're concerned about privacy is you
can use the API instead of the
subscription. So, for Anthropic,
if you use their API,
they have much more stringent rules when
it comes to training on your data and
retaining your data. So, with the API,
they only keep your data for a week and
they don't train on it. Whereas, they
may do that if you're just on the
regular subscription. The only downside
is that you're going to be spending way
more on the API. The fourth thing they
can do to protect your privacy is to
make sure that you're limiting the
scope. So, don't give it access to
everything. Don't let it have the
ability to send messages. Like, by
default, that's off and probably don't
turn that on because you could get
prompt injected and you may your AI
agent might be sending information to
other people without you knowing. That's
why you should also use frontier models
because the dumber the models are, the
more likely that they can easily be
tricked. But, with that being said, for
me personally, I use a mixture between
local models and frontier models and I
think that really gives me the best
balance in managing this Obsidian vault.
Recently, I have been getting into
self-hosting, so I also have a pretty
extensive private LLM setup if I ever
wanted to completely disconnect from all
these subscriptions. So, if you're
interested in that, let me know and
maybe I can make a video about that, but
I'll see you in the next video. Let's
get it.
>> Woo.